---
title: Introduction
draft: false
weight: 1
---

# COMP2221: Functional programming

This is the course webpage for [COMP2221]({{< modulepage >}}). It
collects the exercise sheets, syllabus, and lecture slides. The source
repository is [hosted on GitHub]({{< repo >}}).

The goal of the course is to provide an introduction to the [functional
programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming)
language, [Haskell](https://www.haskell.org). We will introduce the
language and also try and show how developments in Haskell are adopted
by other (perhaps more mainstream) languages, and why you might care.

## Course organisation

The course will run over five weeks on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 12pm
starting on 12th January 2021, via
[Zoom](https://durhamuniversity.zoom.us/j/95350957043?pwd=SEhqZkxWVGJoNlN5UG9BWk9WbzJBQT09)
(Meeting ID: 953 5095 7043; Password: 667975). You will need to be
logged in with your Durham credentials. A calendar subscription with
these details is available at
[https://tinyurl.com/2021comp2221ics](https://tinyurl.com/2021comp2221ics).

### Discussion forum

I have set up a [discussion forum]({{< repo >}}/discussions) where you
can ask, and answer, questions. You'll need a
[GitHub](https://github.com) account to use it, but you've all got one
of those already, right? Note that this repository and forum is
publically visible.

There are five practical sessions which will start in the second week
of term. FIXME: add details.

## Further resources

A recommended textbook for the course is Graham Hutton's [_Programming
in Haskell_](http://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~pszgmh/pih.html). Some
hardcopies are available [in the
library](https://library.dur.ac.uk/record=b2094512~S1).

In addition, there a number of excellent introductory Haskell
tutorials, which you may find enlightening (if you don't like my
explanations). 

The [Haskell wiki](https://wiki.haskell.org/) links to a number of
[tutorials](https://wiki.haskell.org/Learning_Haskell#Online_tutorials).

A slightly cutesy, but nonetheless well-explained, introduction is
provided by [learn you a Haskell](http://learnyouahaskell.com).
